In this lesson, we continue to work with EQS. Let's create a generator of points around the enemy.
NPCs will move around with a new generator. Let's create a new EQS.
Let's call the asset EQS_NextToEnemyLocation.
For our EQSTestingPawn, change the template in the details panel. We expose our new asset. We open EQS.
Let's select a generator called donut. The pattern of this generator is similar to a donut.
Let's adjust the parameters of this generator a little. The first thing we start with is projection data.
You need to set TraceMode to Navigation so that all points are projected onto the navigation mesh.
The next parameter is InnerRadius. We put 450. Next - the outer radius. Let's make it a random number
from 1000 to 1500. I selected these parameters in advance so that we would not guess now.
The next parameter is the number of rings. Let's make it a random number from 3 to 8.
Next comes the number of points in each ring. Also, a random number from 4 to 20.
You can also adjust the angle so that this donut is a sector, but we will leave 360 ​​degrees.
Also set the UseSpiralPatter property to true. The beams from the center will be slightly
curled due to this setting. This concludes with the generation of points.
Thus, each time we will have a certain random pattern.
And our NPC will run to one of the generated points. Next, we need to get this point,
so we add the distance test, which we used in the last lesson. With the default
settings, none of the points is not suitable. In the details panel, in the filter category, set the minimum
and maximum values. Let's put 400 and 800 respectively. Applying this filter,
we discard all points, the distance to which is not within this segment.
The point farthest from the center receives the maximum weight. If you change the ScoreFactor to -1,
then you can invert this condition and the point that is closer to the pawn
will receive the maximum weight . You can also make the score random. Set the minimum value to -1,
and the maximum to 1, and thus the maximum weight will have completely random locations.
In general, such a generator will suit us perfectly. Moving on, these points are generated around the current pawn,
we would like to change this and generate them around our enemy. For this, EQS has a
special class called Context. Click on the generator itself and find a property
called Center. The context defaults to the pawn that owns the given EQS.
We can change that. Create your own Context that will return the actor of our enemy.
For a quick test, let's create a blueprint version of the Context and then switch to C ++.
Selecting a new blueprint class. In the search, enter Context and inherit
from EnvQueryContext. Let's call the asset EQS_ContextSTUCharacter.
This context will return the very first character from the scene. We open the asset.
Context can return both actors and locations.
We need to override one of the proposed functions in the functions section. Click on override.
We see that you can return an array of actors, one actor, an array of locations, or one location. Let's use the
ProvideSingleActor function , which returns one actor. Let's call the blueprint function GetAllActorsOfClass.
Let's pass the base class of our character into it.
And just return the first element from the given array. We are not going to do a
dimension check now . This is the most temporary solution, just to see how Context works.
We return to EQS and specify a new Context in the property Center. Context is also available in the test.
It is located in the property DistanceTo, which determines
which actor the distance is calculated from in our test. Selecting our new Context.
Now in the viewport all points are calculated relative to the character on the scene.
If we move it in any direction. Click on pawn again. Move the pawn and the generator works around character.
Let's see how it works now in the game. Open the behavior tree.
Replace the template in the EQS node with the one we just created with you.
We save. We launch.
We include debug information. The NPC ran to the point that was generated around our character.
Each time the pattern changes slightly. And also if we start moving,
then the sequence of points will be calculated relative to our new location.
Using the blueprint of the context, we checked how this works. Let's create a C ++
context that will return a pointer to the enemy that is in our blackboard.
Open the folder with C ++ classes.
Create a new C ++ class in the AI ​​directory. In the search, we find Context. We need to inherit from EnvQueryContext.
Click next. Let's call the class STUEnemyEnvQueryContext.
We will also add it to the EQS directory.
Added a new folder. Do not forget to specify this in PublicIncludePaths. Before moving on to the context
class we created , let's see what the default context looks like in EQS
. I opened a .cpp file with this class from the engine sources. The calculation of the required actor
takes place in a function called ProvideContext. There is only one thing happening here - the
actor calculates the owner of this EQS and a pointer to this actor is passed to the SetContextHelper function.
In our context, we need to get a pointer to the enemy actor from the blackboard
and also use the SetContextHelper function. Let's copy the function signature from the header file.
Go to the context we created, create a public section.
We copy the signature, also in the protected section we will create a
property that will store the name of the key of the enemy actor,
which we use in the blackboard. Let's copy the property macro from any header file.
Property will be of type FName. Let's call it EnemyActorKeyName.
And by default, assign the string literal EnemyActor.
Go to the .cpp file. We create the body of the ProvideContext function there.
Let's copy the header files from the engine class that we need: EnvQueryTypes.h and EnvQueryItemType_Actor.h
We also need BlackboardComponent.h in addition And we will
also include one header file, which contains a special
function that we need to get a pointer to the BlackboardComponent.
The header file is named "Blueprint / AIBlueprintHelperLibrary.h". Let's also copy the function code from the engine file.
We insert functions into our body.
The log line can be deleted. Change the pointer to actor to const auto.
QueryOwner is a pawn, character that owns the given EQS through the given QueryOwner we can
get a pointer to the BlackboardComponent. Create a new local variable, call it Blackboard.
Upon receipt of the Blackboard, we will use the function found
in the last header file that we included. The static function is called GetBlackboard.
It takes one parameter - this is a pointer to actor. We pass QueryOwner there.
We can also see what is happening inside. The function is quite simple. Cast to pawn occurs.
Then, through pawn, we get a pointer to the controller and using the FindComponetnByClass function
we get a pointer to the blackboard component. If you specify zero on Blackboard, then we immediately exit the function.
If everything is in order, then we create a local variable, which we will call ContextActor.
And then we will use the blackboard function of the component called GetValueAsObject.
We pass the name of our key EnemyActorKeyName as a parameter to this function.
After that, we need to pass this ContextActor to the SetContextHelper function.
Also remember that GetValueAsObject returns a pointer to a UObject. Therefore, we need to add Cast to the actor.
Let's check the work of our context.
Compilation error. Let's see what happened.
I accidentally removed the const specifier from the ProvideContext function. Launch the editor again.
Let's replace the contexts everywhere at EQS. To do this, in the generator, change the center to STUEnemyEnvQueryContext.
And also in distance, change the DistanceTo property to our new context. We save the asset.
Let's go to the behavior tree. Let's update our behavior tree logic using EQS.
We start with a sequence in which we have an opponent. We launch EQS, which generate points around the enemy.
And we also change the sequence when we have no opponent. We will launch the EQS
that we created in the previous lesson - EQS_RandomRoam. Let's delete unnecessary nodes and connect root.
The tree is ready. We save. Let's run our game, let's see how everything looks.
Place the behavior tree on the right. The only thing - let's temporarily remove the key in the fire service.
We will do this so that we are not accidentally killed. We start the game. Displaying debug information. The NPC does not see us,
moves with the random roam generator. He noticed us and started moving with the help of the new EQS.
Also, to display the current EQS, you need to click on the asterisk. Thus, we redesigned
the character's movement with the help of smarter random generators. We can create absolutely
any movement pattern, or randomly combine them. In the next lesson, we'll see how else
you can use this EQS system. I also forgot to note that I removed the steps from the scene
so that dots would not be generated on them and also removed the damage sphere from the scene.